{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11020\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2250\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \uldb \ulc0 MultiPatch 1.8
\f1\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0 \ul Overview\ulnone \
MultiPatch is a patch utility for macOS. If you downloaded this, you probably already know that. MultiPatch is free software made up of several open source projects under varying licenses. See the license and source code sections below for more details.\
\
\ul System Requirements\ulnone \
1. Any system running macOS 10.9 or greater.\
2. Enough hard drive space to save a copy of the files you're planning to patch.\
\
\ul Instructions\ulnone \
1. Run the application.\
2. Select a patch file.\
3. Select the file you want to patch.\
4. Choose where to save the patched file.\
5. Click Apply Patch.\
If nothing goes wrong, the patch will be applied and you'll get a message telling you that patching is complete. Otherwise you'll get an error that may explain what went wrong.\
\
\ul Supported formats\ulnone \
Supported patch formats are automatically detected based on the file extension of the patch. Please ensure the patches you wish to use have the proper extension.\
IPS: .ips\
UPS: .ups\
PPF: .ppf\
XDelta: .delta; .dat\
BSDiff: .bdf; .bsdiff\
BPS: .bps\
Ninja2: .rup\
\
\ul Creating Patches\ulnone \
MultiPatch can also create patches in the following formats: IPS, BPS, XDelta, PPF and BSDiff. Click the "Create Patch" button in the corner of the window to switch to patch creation mode. Usage for that is similar to applying a patch. The format of the patch to create is selected from a drop-down in the save dialog.\
\
BPS Patch creation offers two different options, Linear and Delta. Linear BPS patches are larger, but can be created very quickly and require very little memory to create. Delta BPS patches are usually smaller than Linear patches, but take longer and require more memory to create. The time and memory required to create a BPS delta patch depends on the size of the original and modified files.\
\
Patch creation for the UPS and Ninja2 formats is not supported. These formats are no longer recommended for new patches because BPS provides smaller patch files that compress more efficiently. For larger files XDelta is a popular choice.\
\
\ul License\ulnone \
MultiPatch is built using open source code taken from various sources. The code for each patching algorithm used falls under different licenses, and any changes made will need to adhere to the specific license for that code. The MultiPatch application itself is released under the GPL in an effort to be compatible with the licenses of the patching libraries contained within. The licenses employed by each patching library used are listed below:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 UPS, BPS and IPS use Floating IPS (FLIPS) by Alcaro.
\f0\b0 \
- Released under the GPLv3.\

\f2\b PPF uses ApplyPPF and MakePPF by Icarus.
\f0\b0 \
- Released under a \'93feel free to use this source\'94 clause.\

\f2\b XDelta uses XDelta3 by Josh MacDonald and others.
\f0\b0 \
- Released under the GPL.\

\f2\b BSDiff uses BSDiff by Colin Percival\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 - Released under custom license. See source code for details.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Ninja2 uses LibRUP by Paul Kratt, translated from code by Derrick Sobodash
\f0\b0 \
- Released under the GPLv2.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Source Code\ulnone \
The latest source code to MultiPatch is available on GitHub:\
https://github.com/Sappharad/MultiPatch/\
\
If you have changes that you'd like to contribute to the application, pull requests are welcome.\
\
\ul Version History\
\ulnone 1.8 - May 20th 2021\
- Replaced PPF patching engine with the official one. This fixes problems patching some files.\
- Added support for PPF3 creation. This produces larger files than BPS so you probably shouldn\'92t use it but it is still very popular for the format\'92s original purpose.\
- Fixed appearance of the Create and Apply buttons, they always looked disabled on macOS 11 because the button type previously used is now deprecated.\
\
1.7.1 - November 24th 2020\
- Added native support for Apple Silicon Macs.\
- macOS 10.9 or later is now required due to requirements for supporting newer Macs. Previous versions will remain available for download for older Macs.\
- Updated Floating IPS code to the latest version, which might have some bug fixes.\
- Includes text corrections submitted by Eric Newport; some instances of the app name MultiPatch contained a space.\
- Added command line version as a separate download on the website.\
\
1.7 - December 14th 2018\
- Fixed: PPF Patches did not apply correctly most of the time. (This LibPPF bug was originally documented by Ritesh Sood on SourceForge)\
- Switched IPS, UPS and BPS support to the Floating IPS library. It appears to be the preferred library for creating and applying IPS and BPS patches now, creating the most efficient patches and offering the best patch compatibility.\
- Added support for applying Ninja 2 .rup patches.\
- Compatible with system dark mode in macOS 10.14 Mojave.\
- Added the ability to disable checksum validation when applying XDelta patches. The option is found in the new preferences window. This preference is only valid for your current session and will be turned back off the next time you launch MultiPatch. When you get a checksum error trying to apply an XDelta patch, it means the file you\'92re trying to patch is not the same file that the patch was created for. Enabling this new option allows you to patch anyway, but it\'92s very likely that the patched file will not work.\
\
1.6.2 - April 23rd 2017\
- Fixed: The first two Browse buttons in the Apply Patch window were accidentally swapped in 1.6.\ul \
\
\ulnone 1.6 - April 17th 2017\
- Fix for bug that can cause invalid UPS patches to be created (Contributed by Ravi Kanodia)\
- File extension for patch files is no longer case sensitive.\
- Now supports drag and drop for onto the window for files that you can open.\
- Closing the window now quits the application.\
\
1.5 - December 28th 2015\
- Fixed IPS patch creation for 64-bit builds.\
- Modernized the code, cleaning up leftovers from when 10.4 was still supported.\
- Build is now signed. Still supports OS X 10.7 and newer, including 10.11.\
\
1.4 - December 11th 2012\
- Added support for applying and creating BPS patches.\
- Better handling of filenames with foreign characters and accents.\
- Mac OS X 10.7 or later is now required, due to the BPS reference implementation which is written in C++11. The compilers included with Xcode do not offer support for C++11 against versions of OS X prior to 10.7.\
\
1.3 - October 18th 2010\
- Added support for BSdiff patching and patch creation. BSdiff patch creation requires a lot of memory, and creating patches for files over 60MB or so will require more memory than a 32-bit application allows. Since Mac OS X 10.5 is required for 64-bit Universal binaries, I have provided two versions of this release: A 32-bit build for Mac OS X 10.4 and a 64-bit build for 10.5 or later. Since Apple is discontinuing support for OS X 10.4 in XCode 4, this will probably be the last release that I offer with support for it.\ul \
\
\ulnone 1.2 - October 6th 2010\
- Added more explanation to a couple of the patching errors, so it's more clear to the user when they picked the wrong file.\
\
1.1 - September 8th 2010\
- Switched to Neil Corlett's UIPS code for IPS support.\
- Added patch creation window. Can create IPS, UPS, and XDelta patches.\
- Fixed UPS patching, two of the arguments were flipped.\
- Compiled against latest XDelta release, 3.0z\ul \
\ulnone \
1.0 - July 7th 2010\
- Initial release. Supports applying IPS, UPS, PPF and XDelta patches.\
\
\
\ul Credits and Special Thanks\ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Main Application\ul \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Paul Kratt\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Text Corrections
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Eric Newport\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 IPS, UPS and BPS patcher
\f0\b0 \
Alcaro\
\

\f2\b PPF patcher
\f0\b0 \
Icarus of Paradox\
\

\f2\b XDelta
\f0\b0 \
Josh MacDonald\
\

\f2\b BSDiff
\f0\b0 \
Colin Percival\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\ul Contact\ulnone \
I can be contacted via e-mail at the following address:\
sappharad @ sappharad [.com]\
(Omit brackets and spaces)\
}